Pdf #Sample Milan, walking mostly consisted of walking from, for
example, the subway-, train-, or tram station (partly indoors
and outdoors), along streets with heavy traffic (outdoors), to
the office (indoors), or vice versa. Since walking involves
potential elevated exposures to traffic emissions, this micro-
environment best fits into the group that represent different
methods of commuting, consisting of the five microenviron-
ments: ‘‘walking’’, ‘‘train/metro’’, ‘‘bus/tram’’, ‘‘motor-
bike’’, and ‘‘car/taxi’’.
The activities recorded were gas cooking in the same room,
passive and active ( ¼ self) smoking. Active and passive
smoking were combined into ‘‘ETS exposure’’, because the
dominant exposure component from direct smoke inhalation
of active smoking was not measured, that is, only passive
smoking exposure was measured. Simultaneous presence of
gas cooking and smoking was processed as a separate
activity. Fouractivity classes were used in the analyses: 1.
absence of smoking and gas cooking, 2. presence of gas
cooking, 3. presence of smoking, and 4. simultaneous
presence of both gas cooking and smoking. The status
‘‘doer’’ was given to each participant that stayed 15-min or
longer in a certain microenvironment while exposed to or
performed a certain activity.
A total of 46 individuals provided data for the subsequent
analysis. Data of four participants were lost or could not be
used; three participants did not complete their diaries and in one
case the monitor failed. The original 1-min exposure data were
used to calculate 15-min averages corresponding to the time-
activity diaries. From these, the distributions of the personal 48-
h averages and running 1- and 8-h maxima were calculated.
The population time spent in the three indoor microenvir-
onments was classified into 15-min periods by the four
defined activities. The time fraction spent by the participants
in each microenvironment performing any activity was
combined with the respective CO levels to obtain a time-
weighted average (TWA) microenvironment concentration
(further referred to as microenvironment/activity). The
microenvironment/activity concentrations were compared to
corresponding mean ambient CO concentrations based on
the six fixed-site monitoring stations.
An individual’s exposure depends on the fraction of time
spent and concentration in each microenvironment/activity.
The contribution of each microenvironment/activity to the
average daily population exposure was estimated by multi-
plying the fraction of population time with the corresponding
average microenvironment/activity concentrations. The con-
tribution percentage is calculated by dividing the microenvir-
onment/activity contribution by the sum of all average
microenvironment/activity contributions. This procedure was
repeated including only the individuals that actually visited a
particular microenvironment/activity: the ‘‘doers’’. For
example, if a person spent 13 h indoor at home with an
exposure of 1.5 ppm, and 9 h indoor at work with an
exposure of 2.0 ppm, and 2 h commuting with an exposure of
4.0 ppm, then the contribution of commuting to the average
daily exposure of this person is calculated as follows:
2h  4:0ppm
ð13h  1:5ppmÞþð9h  2:0ppmÞþð2h  4:0ppmÞ
 -
100%
¼ 17:6%
The effects of gas cooking and ETS on the indoorlevels were
studied. Depending on the exposure status, a code was given
foreach 15-min period that a person indicated being in an
indoor microenvironment. Different codes were given for (1)
absence of gas cooking and smoking, (2) gas cooking event,
(3) consecutive periods after each gas cooking event, (4)
present smoking, (5) consecutive periods after smoking, (6)
occurrence of both gas cooking and smoking at the same
time, and (7) the corresponding ambient concentration. The
consecutive periods after gas cooking or ETS exposure were
coded to study how long the levels are affected by either
cooking with gas orsmoking. The difference of the means
were analysed against the mean when indoor sources were
absent by ANOVA one-way analyses of variance.
Multiple regression analyses were used to test the effect of
the activity gas cooking and smoking and theirrespective tails
(the consequtive periods after each activity) and ambient
concentrations on the measured indoor CO concentrations.
Each code indicating a specific activity class was transformed
into classification variables 0 and 1 corresponding to the
activity’’s absence or presence. The dependent variable used
was the 15-min average indoor concentration. The indepen-
dent variables were the simultaneous ambient concentration
and classification variables.
Results
The percentages of population time spent in the various
microenvironments are presented in Figure 1. The time spent
indoors (‘‘home-’’ þ ‘‘work-’’ þ ‘‘otherindoor’’) dominate
in comparison to the outdoor (‘‘home-’’ þ ‘‘work-’’ þ
‘‘other outdoor’’) and transportation (‘‘car/taxi’’ þ ‘‘bus/
tram’’ þ ‘‘motorbike’’ þ ‘‘walking’’ þ ‘‘train/metro’’)
microenvironments; the study population spent 55.7% of the
time at ‘‘home’’, 30% at ‘‘work’’ and 5.1% in ‘‘other
Indoor
90.8% Outdoor
1.7%
Transportation
7.5%
walk
2.4%
motorbike
car/taxi 0.2%
2.4%
bus/tram
1.8%
train/metro
0.7%
work 0.6%
other
0.9%
home 0.2%
home
55.7%
work 
30.0%
other
5.1%
0.6%
Figure 1. Percentages of population time spent in different micro-
environments.
Bruinen de Bruin et al. CO exposure in Milan
314 Journal of Exposure Analysis and Environmental Epidemiology (2004) 14(4)
